Vim - the ubiquitous text editor

Vim is a highly configurable text editor built to make creating and changing any kind of text very efficient. It is included as "vi" with most UNIX systems and with Apple OS X.

Vim is rock stable and is continuously being developed to become even better. Among its features are:

    persistent, multi-level undo tree
    extensive plugin system
    support for many programming languages and file formats
    powerful search and replace
    integrates with many tools

The Very Basics

1. What is Vim?
    - Vim stands for "**Vi Improved**". It's a modified clone of the
    text editor "vi".
    - Vim is included as "vi" with most UNIX systems and with Apple OS X.
2. Why Vim?
    - Vim is free and open source. It is also a charityware that gives
    support to poor children in Uganda!
    - Vim is available for many platforms. Vim has a graphic user
    interface, with menus and support for the mouse, while it also
    supports textmode in terminals, which is perfect for remote
    access/administration (like Quest).
    - Vim is perfect for programming. Vim supports all great features
    for code editors: auto-completion, syntax highlighting, screen
    split, and so on.
    - Vim is highly configurable. With some extra plugins, it works
    just like an IDE (Integrated Development Environment, such as
    visual studio), but much faster!

Different Modes in Vim

One of the most important concepts in Vim is modes. This is the major
difference between Vim and other text editors like Notepad in Windows
and gedit in Linux. Here is a short overview of each mode available
in vim:

- Normal mode: For navigation and manipulation of text. This is the
default mode when you start Vim. Press `ESC` to exit back to normal
mode from other modes.
- Insert mode: For inserting new text. Insert mode can be reached in
several ways, e.g., pressing `i` when in normal mode.
- Command-line mode: For entering editor commands, such as help, search,
 save, quit. Press `:` when in normal mode to enter command-line mode.
- Visual mode: For navigation and manipulation of text selections.
This mode allows you to perform most normal mode commands, and a few extra
others, on selected (i.e. highlighted) text. Press `v` when in normal
mode to enter visual mode.

